===========================================================
Simulation and Control of Biomechanical Systems with Python
===========================================================

Jason K. Moore, PhD. and Obinna Nwanna
Human Motion and Control Laboratory
Cleveland State University

In this tutorial you will learn how to derive the equations of motion for a
typical multibody biomechanical system in a symbolic mathematical framework and
then numerically simulate and visualize the system's free and controlled motion
all with open source tools written in the Python programming language.

In particular, we will develop a model of a simple human that can be used for
balance studies. We will walk through the derivation of the equations of motion
of the multibody system with SymPy, a computer aided algebra system, then
simulate the free motion of the system using NumPy and SciPy, Python's
numerical and scientific tools libraries, then visualize the motion of the
system in 3D in using PyDy, and finally we will add simple feedback control to
enable the "human" to balance.

It is best if the attendees have basic understanding of physics, dynamics, and
ordinary differential equations, and familiarity with a programming or
scripting language (prior knowledge of Python is not required). Our goal is
that attendees will come away with the ability to model basic biomechanical
systems, simulate and visualize the motion, and apply simple feedback
controllers all with free and open source tools.

The tutorial will be capped at 35 participants and you must be registered to
attend. The examples will be able to be run on your own laptop, but we will
also potentially have computers available with the software installed.
Installation instructions will be posted at a later date.
